---
name: Introduction
route: /
---
# Lefthoek Brandbook

Lefthoek solves the problem of knowledge spill. A lot of critical information in
organisations is not stored, moderated, and processed properly, if at all. As a
result, lots of time-consuming tasks are repeated over and over again. 

One has to practice what one preaches, however. And that's the sole purpose of
this site. It is the place where we collect all the documents that are relevant
for those new to Lefthoek. 

Maintaining a collective document like this is not easy. That's precisely the
reason that most companies don't manage to sustain it over a longer period of
time, or even do it at all.

In order to prevent this very scenario, I came up with a few guidelines how I
want us to handle documents and information at Lefthoek.


### 1. When in doubt, keep it

Information that may appear as noise to you can be critical to someone else.
Time is a reality distortion field. Once you've learned something, you cannot
unlearn it. As as result, knowledge and insights that are actually quite hard to
figure out, can appear to be simple all of a sudden. 

Beware of this fact, when you are wondering: is this note, mindmap, or
conversation worth keeping? Did it take you a substantial amount of energy to
discover or learn it? Then the answer is most likely, yes.


### 2. Information is not just texts

While it may be the majority of the information that we share with each other,
other modes of information are just as important to store. Think of things like drawings, videos, chat conversations, etc.

When it is not immediately apparent how a piece of information can be conserved
on this site, it's probably a pretty good indicator of the fact that it actually
should be on here. 

Spend considerable time and energy to find a way and discuss this with others.

This also brings us to the next rule.


### 3. Clean up after yourself

The fact that a document is for internal use, doesn't mean that presentation is
not matter, quite on the contrary. In my opinion, internal and external
information are not two completely different things. They are different layers
of the same building. 

In this metaphor, internal documents would make up the foundation of the
building. The stronger these fundamental building blocks are, the more stable
the building as whole will be.


### 4. Refactor periodically

Archiving does not mean: never touch anymore. Revisit and refactor existing
documents periodically. Luckily, documents are not set in stone any longer. Act
accordingly. 

Since this brandbook is stored in git, version control is taken care of
automatically. Edit as much as your heart desires. The team can always decline
the pull request or revert to an earlier version later.

This rule also applies to this very document.


### 5. Respect quality content, not important people

Good content is good content, no matter who wrote it. Vice versa, everyone can
produce subpar content, even me. Don't think a document cannot be improved
because it's written by someone who is more experienced or influential than you. 

Again, thank god we have good version control. No change is irreversible.  If
you see an opportunity to improve a document, please do so. Don't hold back.


### 6. Public by default, private by exception

At Lefthoek, you need a strong reason not to share information with others and
even the outside world. Hardly ever, is something so critical that it needs to
be protected from other people's eyes.

Sharing is not only caring, it's the only possible way to connect with others. Not putting your thoughts, ideas, and expectations out there could deprive you from some amazing possibilities.

When in doubt: just ask and/or discuss with the team, in all other cases: publish!


### 7. Make it part of the agenda

Literally. 

Every meeting should have the status of the brandbook on the agenda.
What should be stored, updated, removed, etc. 

There's no silver bullet that will solve your knowledge management for ever.
It's an ongoing process. Treat it accordingly.
