---
title: Moonshooters, Fruit-Pickers, and Laika's
order: 1
author: Nato
date: 2021-03-25
tags:
  - moonshots
  - exponentiality
  - entrepreneurship
  - low-hanging fruit
excerpt: |
  In our current society, we use certain labels to identify ourselves and
  manoeuvre in this vast and dynamic world. Labels help us navigate the
  different contexts active in our modern society. Moreover, these labels are
  now more so propagated on the worldwide web as a tool to brand ourselves with
  or amongst others, in the diverse online communities. Consequently, this how
  the ideals of digital citizenship were born. Have a read and see wich persona
  you identify with the most!
---

As we gear-up for the incoming 4th Industrial Revolution, a large part of our
society have take on key roles as we more into a more tech-driven era. Whether
directly or indirectly, you are a participant in this monumental shift in
society. Here at Lefthoek we try understand our society through 5 different
personas. Taking into consideration both the past and present experiences that
has led us all to this forthcoming era, we believe we all had a part to play.
*The question is, what digital citizen do you identify yourself as?* Your label
is fluid and can evolve with the changing times, but  which persona you relate
the most with currently ?

***Dreamers*** are individuals who I think have always been present in society.
These individuals learn about life quickly and eventually find the current state
of affairs mundane. They tend to grow big dreams in mind and aim to obtain the
fruit at the top of the tree. This metaphor is telling to their aims and goals
but also foreboding the high risk they are willing to take. The fruits at the
top of the tree are hard to obtain and they are not always ripe. Visionaries are
willing to risk it all to realise their dreams. One prime example of a visionary
today is Elon Musk. Musk is determined to take humans to wifi0-working Mars in
the next few years. Will this dream materialise, we shall only wait and see... 

![Photo by Thanh Nguyen on Unsplash](/images/telescopes.jpg)

***Laika*** was one the first animals that were sent to explore space. Retrieved
as a stray dog from the streets of Moscow, she became the first dog to explore
space under the notable Soviet space envoy Sputnik 2 in 1957.  [This notion is
still practiced
today](https://www.businessinsider.nl/animals-nasa-russia-space-agencies-sent-to-space-2019-6?international=true&r=US#:~:text=Countries%20including%20the%20US%2C%20the,send%20animals%20into%20orbit%20today.)
but might sound incredulous to some and many may even be inclined to call on
PETA. Nevertheless, this was an insightful feat to the information that was
gathered during the Space race era. During the Cold War, the space race pushed
visionaries/dreamers and fellow politicians to align their ideals to achieve
huge leaps in terms of space exploration. This collaboration then brought about
new key players, such as Laika, that provided society with much insight with the
trajectory they were heading with. Laikas are not intentional players, they are
random intermediaries that factually illustrate the possibilities and the
limitations society, through trial and error. Laikas were the one's who take the
driver's seat. They are and continue to be the failed encounters that teach us
something valuable about our dreams. They provide insights and lesson's learnt.

***Moonshooters*** can be characterized as the over-ambitious cousins of
visionaries, armed with awareness, time and money. This title was ["first
introduced in Jules Verne’s From the Earth to the Moon but popularized by
president John F. Kennedy in
1961.](https://www.lefthoek.com/blog/the-low-end-theory/)" Moonshooters are
passionate about solving the world's current wicked problems but fail to
understand that the input of other disciplines and expertise is necessary. Also
it is important to note that not all the of the problems in the 21st century can
be solved through technology. Like the name suggests, "moonshot" conveys an idea
or ideal that is a 'long-shot'. It is something that has a high probability to
not work and this is stemmed from the fact that moonshot projects are done
without any prior, concrete research of potential risks and benefits. The
moonshooter label falls on those those who are doers rather than thinkers and
act fast. Much like the visionaries that dream big, they take it step further
and try to realise the actual project as soon as possible. They are the big
risk-takers, willing to act then later find out the barriers or issues that are
present. 

***Passengers*** are individuals that go with the flow. Have you heard of the
saying that "dead fish go with the flow"? This harsh reference contextualises
the notion of effort. Passengers in the tech can viewed as myriad of individuals
that are not necessarily involved in the disruption of the industry. They are
part of the audience. It is important to note that Passengers still retain much
responsibility and agency in this journey. Passengers can change trains, get off
and also change modes of transport i.e. this means that they also can choose
which apps are much useful to the society and which technologies should be
embraced and given room evolve. They are can also be seen as cheerleaders as
they provide insight on which technologies are interesting.

![Photo by Arūnas Naujokas on Unsplash](/images/apple-trees.jpg)

As the name suggests, this persona is quite self explanatory. ***Spectators***
are similar to passengers but relinquish their agency of choice and intuition to
the powers that may be. They are curious and are willing to take a risk by being
passively involved. They go with the flow. Spectators can bee seen as observers
or members of the audience, just like passengers. This means that they can still
have an opinion on the matter but their vested interest is not as strong. 

***Fruit-pickers*** are in-between the dreamers and moonshooters. They are
action-driven much like the moonshooters but they strive for simpler and more
efficient solutions with the resources that are within reach. If you think of a
fruit tree, it is much easier to take the ripe fruit that is on a lower branch
than it is getting the fruit at the top of the tree. Problems should be handled
in this manner, but you find, particularly in the tech industry, innovations to
pick the fruit at the top of the tree tend to materalise much more often than
simple solutions aimed to get the fruit at the top of the tree.

Read more on fruit-pickers in our previous article
[here.](/blog/the-low-end-theory/)

